README.md, before:

# Tekinbot

Tekinbot is a simple and expandable slackbot that could serve great utility to your slack workspace!

## Preparation:

0.  You need python3.6

1.  First of all, set up a python [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html)

2.  Run `make dependency` to install all of the required packages, depending on your system you might have to run
    `sudo make dependency` or `sudo -H make dependency`

3.  Run `make install-hooks` to install pre-commit hooks

4.  `git checkout -b <your-branch-name>`, and hack away! I recommend using a meaningful branch name, and recommend using the format
    `git checkout -b <github_username-issue_number-branch_name>`

5.  Run `make dev` to make a local server instance so you could `curl` and test your changes

6.  After making your changes, `git push origin <your-branch-name>`, and let me know that your branch is ready to be merged

7.  After some review and testing, I will merge your branch into the master branch, and deploy it to the production tekinbot instance!

8.  You can then see your tekinbot addition in live-action, EHHHHHHH!

## How to add a new module:

1.  All current modules can be seen in [this directory](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/tree/master/tekinbot/comms),
    if you would like some examples to look at.

2.  All the modules should have two methods: `process(request)` and `post(request, response)`.

3.  Some modules may need extra components; for example, all commands in [`message`](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/comms/message/README.md) submodule need a component called `comm_re`. 
    Refer to the individual modules' README to see how they work.

4.  The `process()` method handles an incoming message, and decides how to respond to it.
    The `request` parameter is the full http request generated by Slack.
    A sample of what it looks like could be seen [here](https://api.slack.com/events-api#receiving_events)

5.  The `post()` method handles how a response should be posted, and any actions that are to be performed after the posting
    of the said messages. The utility modules have some functions for plain text posting, so usually you could just use
    these utilities if you are not trying to post special stuff, or to perform some pre/post-posting actions.

6.  Add your module to the [comms/\_\_init\_\_.py](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/comms/__init__.py),
    and its individual submodule's \_\_init\_\_.py

7.  After implementing writing both of these functions and any other additional requirements that a module might have, you 
    should then write unit tests for your comms module.

8.  Commit your changes, fix any things that may be caught by the pre-commit hooks, then `make test`; if any of the test fails, 
    fix accordingly.

9.  Manually Test your module by `make dev` then `curl`ing your local tekin instance with something similar to the
    [example here](https://api.slack.com/events-api#receiving_events).

## How to Tekin database:

0.  First of all, you will need `mysql-server` running on your dev if you want to do any manual testing at all. See [here](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/mysql.html) to see how to set it up on Ubuntu environments. This project uses SqlAlchemy ORM to deal with all the database transactions; for a quick tutorial see [here](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/orm/tutorial.html)

1.  Figure out what kind of tables you will need, and make a table model similar to [this one](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/db/models/karma.py) in the same directory (tekinbot/db/models); after you   are done writing your table schemas, add your table to [the db module](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/db/models/__init__.py)

2.  Implement your module; tekin uses a singleton as SqlAlchemy `engine`, and with that engine creates a single `SessionMaker`, to get these instances, use the utilities from [`tekinbot.utils.db`](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/utils/db.py)

3.  To test on your machine, supply your MySQL-server's (root) access credentials in the `.tekin-secrets.yaml` file, by default it is located at `~/.tekin-secrets.yaml`, you can change the yaml file to be at a different location, but don't commit it as part of your change; make sure the yaml file a dictionary similar to this:
    ```{yaml}
    database:
        username: root
        password: hunter2
    ```

4.  When you `make dev`, all the tables in the directory tekinbot/db/models will be initiated if they don't exist yet. run python, import your module, and test away!

5.  If after a feature has been shipped, you need a table model changed, figure out the correct `ALTER TABLE` command, and include it in your pull request.

Commit message:

Fixing dev environments (#2)
* added dev requirements, modified venv generation, added dry run and no-db options to tekin for dev environment, modified makefile accordingly.

* Updated README doc according to recent changes

* error handles when tekin-secret config isn't specified

README.md, after:

# Tekinbot

Tekinbot is a simple and expandable slackbot that could serve great utility to your slack workspace!

## Preparation:

0.  You need python3.6, together with MySQL and SQLite

1.  First of all, set up a python [virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) by running `make venv`

2.  Run `make install-hooks` to install pre-commit hooks

3.  `git checkout -b <your-branch-name>`, and hack away! 
    For this repo, I recommend using a meaningful branch name, and recommend using the format
    `git checkout -b <github_username-issue_number-branch_name>`

4.  Run `make dev` to make a local server instance so you could `curl` and test your changes
    note that the `make dev` instance runs with `--dry-run` and `--no-db` options, meaning that:
    *   it does not send response requests, but instead prints all responses to stdout
    *   it does not write to mysql database, but uses an in-memory sqlite instance instead
    
5.  After making your changes, `git push origin <your-branch-name>`, 
    for this repo, let me know that your branch is ready to be merged

6.  (Optional) If you have a slack workspace to test it on"
    *   run `make server` and set your request URL to `http://<your-tekin-url>:9338`, 
    *   if you want another port, run `python -m tekinbot.tekin --port=<your-port>` instead of `make server`
    *   You can then see your tekinbot addition in live action! EHHHHHHH!

7.  You've dunnit! Remember what Tekin would say: take a 5 minute break, drink some water and wash your face...

## How to add a new module:

1.  All current modules can be seen in [this directory](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/tree/master/tekinbot/comms),
    if you would like some examples to look at.

2.  All the modules should have two methods: `process(request)` and `post(request, response)`.

3.  Some modules may need extra components; for example, all commands in [`message`](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/comms/message/README.md) submodule need a component called `comm_re`. 
    Refer to the individual modules' README to see how they work.

4.  The `process()` method handles an incoming message, and decides how to respond to it.
    The `request` parameter is the full http request generated by Slack.
    A sample of what it looks like could be seen [here](https://api.slack.com/events-api#receiving_events)

5.  The `post()` method handles how a response should be posted, and any actions that are to be performed after the posting
    of the said messages. The utility modules have some functions for plain text posting, so usually you could just use
    these utilities if you are not trying to post special stuff, or to perform some pre/post-posting actions.

6.  Add your module to the [comms/\_\_init\_\_.py](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/comms/__init__.py),
    and its individual submodule's \_\_init\_\_.py

7.  After implementing writing both of these functions and any other additional requirements that a module might have, you 
    should then write unit tests for your comms module.

8.  Commit your changes, fix any things that may be caught by the pre-commit hooks, then `make test`; if any of the test fails, 
    fix accordingly.

9.  Manually Test your module by `make dev` then `curl`ing your local tekin instance with something similar to the
    [example here](https://api.slack.com/events-api#receiving_events).

## How to Tekin database:

0.  First of all, you will need `mysql-server` running on your dev if you want to do any manual testing at all. See [here](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/mysql.html) to see how to set it up on Ubuntu environments. This project uses SqlAlchemy ORM to deal with all the database transactions; for a quick tutorial see [here](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/orm/tutorial.html)

1.  Figure out what kind of tables you will need, and make a table model similar to [this one](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/db/models/karma.py) in the same directory (tekinbot/db/models); after you   are done writing your table schemas, add your table to [the db module](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/db/models/__init__.py)

2.  Implement your module; tekin uses a singleton as SqlAlchemy `engine`, and with that engine creates a single `SessionMaker`, to get these instances, use the utilities from [`tekinbot.utils.db`](https://github.com/nanflasted/TekinBot/blob/master/tekinbot/utils/db.py)

3.  To test on your machine, supply your MySQL-server's (root) access credentials in the `.tekin-secrets.yaml` file, by default it is located at `~/.tekin-secrets.yaml`, you can change the yaml file to be at a different location, but don't commit it as part of your change; make sure the yaml file a dictionary similar to this:
    ```{yaml}
    database:
        username: root
        password: hunter2
    ```

4.  When you `make dev`, all the tables in the directory tekinbot/db/models will be initiated if they don't exist yet. run python, import your module, and test away!

5.  If after a feature has been shipped, you need a table model changed, figure out the correct `ALTER TABLE` command, and include it in your pull request.
